Now managing state and data and compose is very important, as we have been talking about.
So at this point, as we were building our Notes app, we found ourselves in a situation where we are
stuck because we want to hoist our state, do state housing even further, because we want to make sure
that any composable, any class can access that data that is intact.
OK, so what do we have right now?
The situation is that we have two main activity.
We have no screen and we have no role.
These are calling each other right.
So Note Row is been called the inside of no screen, no screen.
It's been called the onset of activity.
It's an idea here is that we are stuck because the list note this state is state and we created make
of all notes its stock instead of main activity, which means even though we are seeing the repercussions
of that, we're seeing the difference.
We're seeing the state being propagate to notes and of course, do not row.
That's very problematic because because if you want to add another class, a subset of this main activity,
maybe, and that a fragment or another composable that is away from this structure here, we're stuck
right because we can't really get ahold of the state of this list that contains data.
So in this case, here we would go ahead and pass the list manually to not screen and row and to whoever
won it.
In this case, here we are making copies of that state, which is not what we want.
What we want really is something that is different, something that will allow us to still have this
structure.
However, we want to separate this state.
We want to even hoist this state further out of this whole tree of composable.
Right.
Doing that, that will allow this separation that we need because we want to make sure that this state,
this data is not bothered by any lifecycles and many things that may happen inside of our campus, both
in main activity to host this state in a separate entity.
We have an entity.
We have a class in compose in Android called view model.
So the view model here will encapsulate the state.
The data will do all the work that needs to be done, but most importantly, it will contain that information
away from the distractions of life cycle.
So if you want to will in this case, it will expose values data to other classes in composable as the
single source of truth, the data in a view model is intact from the tree that we have there of composable.
The data is integral and away from the lifecycle of activity and composable, which is really important.
So now whoever wants the data, they can access it through the view model and do what they need to do
inside of Noro.
So if note screen access the view model and change the data note role when it access the view model
because they're going to be accorded the same view model right, the single source of truth, the one
place they can all go to get the actual source of note row in this case will get the last state of that
view model, that variable or whatever it is that is trying to access from if you want.
So separating that gives us a lot of flexibility, as you can see, because now we have hosted the state
even higher than what we have done before, because before we would just try to hoist to the calling
function, right?
In this case, my activity would be the calling function.
That's what we would host the state.
But now we're moving that even further down to a few model, especially if this state contains actual
data, such a list and so forth.
Because remember, if the list changes, the data is what drives everything in this application or in
potentially any application that needs data.
Right?
So having one place where the data is integral, meaning if it changes that anybody else or any class
or any composable that needs a data when they also use that review model, because that's again, is
the one place, the single source of truth, it will get the most up to date state.
In this case, the most up to date list.
So that's what we're going to do.
We are going to use a view model to hoist our data even further up the chain.
All right.
Let's go ahead and implement if you model.